Propose new Slice-8 operation - update (#7257)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/ops/movement/Slice_8.md

## Slice <a name="Slice"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_movement_Slice_8}

**Versioned name**: *Slice-8*

**Category**: *Data movement*

**Short description**: *Slice* operation extracts a slice of the input tensor.

**Detailed Description**: *Slice* operation selects a region of values from the `data` tensor.

> Selected values start at indexes provided in the `start` input and end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selected values start at indexes provided in the `start` input (inclusively) and end
```

Author: Done

at indexes provides in `stop` input (exclusively).

> Input `step` allows subsampling of `data`, selecting evey *n*-th element,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `step` input allows subsampling of `data`, selecting every *n*-th element,
```

Author: Done

where `n` is equal to `step` element for corresponding axis.
Negative `step` value indicates slicing backwards, so the sequence along the corresponding axis is reversed in the output tensor.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to select all values contiguously set `step` to 1 for each axis.

```

Author: Done (without "in order")

> Optional `axes` input allows specifying slice indexes only on selected axes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The optional `axes` input allows specifying slice indexes only on selected axes.
```

Author: Done

**Attributes**: *Slice* operation has no attributes.

**Inputs**

* **1**: `data` - tensor (to be sliced) of type *T* and shape rank greater or equal to 1. **Required.**

* **2**: `start` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND*. Indices corresponding to axes in `data`.
  Defines the starting coordinate of the slice in the `data` tensor.
  A negative index value represents counting elements from the end of that dimension.
  A value larger than the size of a dimension is silently clamped. **Required.**

* **3**: `stop` - 1D, type *T_IND*, similar to `start`.
  Defines the coordinate of the opposite vertex of the slice, or where the slice ends.
  Stop indexes are exclusive, which means values lying on the ending edge are
  not included in the output slice.
  To slice to the end of a dimension of unknown size `INT_MAX`
  may be used (or `INT_MIN` if slicing backwards). **Required.**

* **4**: `step` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* and the same shape as `start` and `stop`.
  Integer value that specifies the increment between each index used in slicing.
  Value cannot be `0`, negative value indicates slicing backwards. **Required.**

* **5**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_AXIS*.

>   Optional 1D tensor indicating to which dimensions apply the values in `start` and `stop`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Optional 1D tensor indicating which dimensions the values `start` and `stop` apply to.
```

Author: Done

  Negative value means counting dimensions from the end. The range is `[-r, r - 1]`, where `r` is the rank of the `data` input tensor.

>   Values are required to be unique. If a particular axis is unspecified, it is considered as a whole dimension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Values are required to be unique. If a particular axis is unspecified, it will be output in full and not sliced.
```

Author: Done

  A negative index value represents counting elements from the end of that dimension.
  A value larger than the size of a dimension is silently clamped. **Required.**

* **3**: `stop` - 1D, type *T_INT*, similar to `start`.
  Defines the coordinate of the opposite vertex of the slice, or where the slice ends.
  Stop indexes are exclusive, which means values lying on the ending edge are
  not included in the output slice.
  To slice to the end of a dimension of unknown size `INT_MAX`
  may be used (or `INT_MIN` if slicing backwards). **Required.**

* **4**: `step` - 1D tensor of type *T_INT* and the same shape as `start` and `stop`.
  Integer value that specifies the increment between each index used in slicing.
  Value cannot be `0`, negative value indicates slicing backwards. **Required.**

* **5**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_INT*.
  Optional 1D tensor indicating to which dimensions apply the values in `start` and `stop`.
  Negative value means counting dimensions from the end. The range is `[-r, r - 1]`, where `r` is the rank of the `data` input tensor.
  Values are required to be unique. If a particular axis is unspecified, it is considered as a whole dimension.

>   Default value: `[0, 1, 2, ..., start.shape[0] - 1]`. **Optional.**

Reviewer 2: Our last approach is not to have optional `axes` input and it is required for all operation from latest opsets. I propose to change it to required input and specify explicitly in front-ends so this way we avoid mistakes regarding this parameter value.

Author: I can agree that optional input makes things a little bit more complicated. 
Also it should be aligned with the common approach, so I will make the axes input Required too.
@postrational @mbencer @lazarevevgeny Any objections?

Reviewer 3: @rkazants , it is not completely true. We still may have optional inputs if they make usage of the op easier. In this particular case I believe that forcing user to specify axes looks a bit overcomplicated. So I would recommend keep the specification as is.

We must avoid ops with **multiple** optional inputs as we discussed during the meeting.

Reviewer 2: @lazarevevgeny, I agree with you. It seems to be not simple to generate default value for `axes` in frond-end side

Author: I have a draft implementation with axes input generation and injection in the new Slice ngraph op, 
but I found it's not recommended approach and optional input should be handled by plugins.https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/5ecb08ec8abb764156affa22e77ae1db08a0983b/ngraph/core/src/op/slice.cpp#L34-L58

Author: Current decision is that we are leaving axes input as **Optional**.

> 

Reviewer 2: also I think that types of `start` and `axes` can be different. So please use `T_AXIS` for axes input

Author: Done

**Short description**: *Slice* operation extracts a slice of the input tensor.

**Detailed Description**: *Slice* operation selects a region of values from the `data` tensor.
Selected values start at indexes provided in the `start` input and end
at indexes provides in `stop` input (exclusively).

Input `step` allows subsampling of `data`, selecting evey *n*-th element,
where `n` is equal to `step` element for corresponding axis.
Negative `step` value indicates slicing backwards, so the sequence along the corresponding axis is reversed in the output tensor.

Optional `axes` input allows specifying slice indexes only on selected axes.
Other axes will not be affected and will be output in full.

The rules follow python language slicing `data[start:stop:step]`.

**Attributes**: *Slice* operation has no attributes.

**Inputs**

* **1**: `data` - tensor (to be sliced) of type *T* and shape rank greater or equal to 1. **Required.**

* **2**: `start` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND*. Indices corresponding to axes in `data`.
  Defines the starting coordinate of the slice in the `data` tensor.
  A negative index value represents counting elements from the end of that dimension.

>   A value larger than the size of a dimension is silently clamped. **Required.**

Reviewer 2: should we tell that dimension size of `start` (`stop` and `step`) must be equal to a rank of `data`?

Author: The size of these inputs can be smaller than rank of the `data` input, if not all of the axes are specified. 
This is mentioned in the input `axes` and detailed description, at the and there is additional info:
"Number of elements in `start`, `stop`, `step`, and `axes` inputs are required to be equal."

        <port id="3">       <!-- step: [-2] -->
          <dim>1</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="4">       <!-- axes: [0] -->
          <dim>1</dim>
        </port>
    </input>
    <output>
        <port id="5">       <!-- output: [9, 7, 5, 3, 1] -->
            <dim>5</dim>
        </port>
    </output>
</layer>
```

*Example 10: `start` and `stop` out of the dimension size, slicing backward*

```xml
<layer id="1" type="Slice" ...>
    <input>
        <port id="0">       <!-- data: [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9] -->
          <dim>10</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="1">       <!-- start: [100] -->
          <dim>1</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="2">       <!-- stop: [-100] -->
          <dim>1</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="3">       <!-- step: [-1] -->
          <dim>1</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="4">       <!-- axes: [0] -->
          <dim>1</dim>
        </port>
    </input>
    <output>
        <port id="5">       <!-- output: [9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0] -->
            <dim>10</dim>
        </port>
    </output>
</layer>
```

*Example 11: slicing 2D tensor, all axes specified*

```xml
<layer id="1" type="Slice" ...>
    <input>

>         <port id="0">       <!-- data: [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9] -->

Reviewer 2: nit:  `data: [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]` -> `data: [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4], [5, 6, 7, 8, 9]]`

Author: Ok:) Done
